## Final Project Log: Day-by-Day
Nov 29:
I ran into a lot of issues attempting to create my music visualizer so I have decided to completely start over. The tutorials and readings that I referenced to start my visualizer didn't make sense to me so I decided to take a different route. My dad had always talked about writing simple games in his free time when he was first teaching programming at a local high school so I figured I would try my hand at it. I always loved Gallaga and Space Invaders as a kid and decided to attempt to create a very simple game based off of them. I am thinking about making a little man (Isaac Newton) attempt to shoot seeds at moving apples. We'll see where that takes me.

Dec 4:
After working on my attempt at Space Invaders I decided to scrap that idea. I ran into too many issues that created too much anxiety and my knowledge base is not extensive enough to get the game to do what I want it to. I decided to take a more simple approach and recreate the classic Snake game.

Dec 4-7:
I worked on my new game by watching various tutorials about constructor functions and reading the p5 textbook chapter about objects (chapter 10). I discovered that I knew far more about how to write Snake than I did Space Invaders. I was familiar with a few more functions and after reading/watching tutorials the game itself began to make sense. I ran into a few issues with my understanding of the constructor function but after referencing the tutorials and reading I got a handle on it.

Dec 8:
After looking more into constructor functions I decided to rewrite some of my code so it made more sense to me. I focused more on expanding my constructor function during this rewrite. I discovered that writing everything out in a longer-winded fashion really helped me understand what my code was doing and why it was doing it.

Dec 9:
I woke up early to tend to the final aspects of my project in order to allow myself to study for other finals but turn this one in on time. I decided to make my food blink and add a blackout screen to my game when a player loses. Before adding these aspects I felt my game was a little too simple. I will admit that it is still quite simple but, seeing as I struggled through the entirety of this course, I am pleased with my final product and proud of myself for taking on something that required me to branch out from the lessons taught in the main course of this class. I think the researching part of my coding experience really helped me understand what exactly I was doing. For some of the assignments in this course I didn't fully understand what I was doing and felt like I was just getting by by the skin of my teeth. I like to understand why things do what they do and now I know that the best way for me to understand p5/coding in general is to do research independent of the course material. The p5 text was invaluable throughout this as were the videos by Shiffman that were included in the course material. 

## Issues
I ran into a LOT of issues with my initial game. My biggest issue for the longest time was associated with the keyPressed function. A couple of people helped me out and keyed (pun intended) me in to the keyCode function associated with letter keys (ex: 's' = 83 in keycode). I attempted to use this information in my Space Invaders game but then I ran into even more issues. After I battled with the keyPressed issues my apple objects started to give me a run for my money. For some reason only two would show up at a time. After that hiccup my seed wouldn't shoot. So after far too many panic attacks surrounding my game I decided to start over with something I felt I could handle. This class has been one of the most challenging courses I've ever taken and I think my initial idea of recreating Space Invaders was a little too ambitious for me. After writing the initial code for my Snake game I ran into some issues with my objects showing up at the same time. After asking for help on the issues forum I discovered that it was because I was writing my constructor function incorrectly. I attempted to take shortcuts that were not viable. After realizing this I took a look at chapter 10 again and got my game to work!
